[Data][LLM] Add template for ray.data.llm (#401)
anyscale/templates: templates/ray-data-llm/README.md

In this tutorial, we will focus on the latter, using offline LLM inference for a summarization task using real-world news articles.

## Step 1: Set up the workload

Ray Data LLM is a library for running batch inference for LLMs. It uses Ray Data for data processing and provides an easy and flexible interface for the user to define their own workload. In this tutorial, we will implement a workload based on the [`CNNDailyMail`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/abisee/cnn_dailymail) dataset, which is a collection of news articles. And we will summarize each article with our batch inferencing pipeline. We will cover more details on how to customize the workload in the later sections.

```python
import ray 
import datasets

# Load the dataset from Hugging Face into Ray Data. If you're using your own dataset,
# refer to Ray Data APIs https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/data/api/input_output.html to load it.
# For example, you can use ray.data.read_json(dataset_file) to load dataset in JSONL.

df = datasets.load_dataset("cnn_dailymail", "3.0.0")
ds = ray.data.from_huggingface(df["train"])

```

## Step 2: Define the processor config for vLLM engine

> We will also need to define the model configs for the LLM engine, which configures the model and compute resources needed for inference. 

Reviewer: Can we just the tell the user to put their HF tokens in the cluster wide runtime envs?

Reviewer 2: +1. This aligns more on the real deployment case as well.

Author: done, replaced with asking user to always provide HF_TOKEN

Some models will require you to input your [Hugging Face user access token](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens). This will be used to authenticate/download the model and **is required for official LLaMA, Mistral, and Gemma models**. You can use one of the other models which don't require a token if you don't have access to this model (for example, `neuralmagic/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct-FP8`).

Run the following cell to start the authentication flow. A VS Code overlay will appear and prompt you to enter your Hugging Face token if your selected model requires authentication. If you are using a model that does not require a token, you can skip this step. For this example, we will be using the `meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct` model, which requires a token.

```python
# Prompts the user for Hugging Face token if required by the model.
from util.utils import prompt_for_hugging_face_token
HF_TOKEN = prompt_for_hugging_face_token("meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct")
```

In this example, we will be using the `meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct` model.

> We will also need to define a configuration associated with the model we want to use to configure the compute resources, engine arguments and other inference engine specific parameters. For more details on the the model configs, see the [API doc](https://docs.anyscale.com/llms/serving/guides/bring_any_model/) on bringing your own models.

Reviewer: This bring you own model thing will be removed, and we need to reference either an oss doc or address it here.

```python
from ray.data.llm import vLLMEngineProcessorConfig
from util.utils import is_on_gcp_cloud

# There's no a10g on GCP.
accelerator_type = "L4" if is_on_gcp_cloud() else "A10G"

processor_config = vLLMEngineProcessorConfig(
    model_source="meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct",
    engine_kwargs=dict(
        tensor_parallel_size=1,
        pipeline_parallel_size=1,
        max_model_len=16384,
        enable_chunked_prefill=True,
        max_num_batched_tokens=2048,
    ),
    # Override Ray's runtime env to include the Hugging Face token. Ray is being used under the hood to orchestrate the inference pipeline.
    runtime_env=dict(
        env_vars=dict(
            HF_TOKEN=HF_TOKEN,
        ),

>     ),

Reviewer 2: Echo the previous comment, we could just say "you need to put your HF token here if the model you're using is gated".

    batch_size=16,

>     accelerator_type=accelerator_type,

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest add `concurrency=1` and comment that you can scale out easily by incrementing this number.

)

```

> ## Step 3: Define the preprocess and postprocess lambda

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Define the preprocess and postprocess functions
```

We will need to define the preprocess lambda to convert input dataset to format that `vLLMEngineProcessor` can consume, and also postprocessor
lambda that filter out the uninterested fields from vLLM engine.

```python

> preprocess = lambda row: dict(

Reviewer: maybe define them as def instead of lambda?

Reviewer 2: +1. If define separately, it's better and more flexible to be functions.

We should mention the input and output of preprocess and postprocess functions. Specifically, preprocess should be `preprocess(row: dict[str, Any])`, and its output should be a dict with keys `messages` and `sampling_params`. Postprocess should be `postprocess(row: dict[str, Any])`, and the `row` will have the key `generated_text`.

Also we should explain the column carry over mechanism. Specifically, the output rows of `preprocess` can only include the required keys (`messages` and `sampling_params`), but the output rows of `postprocess` should include all columns users want to carry over, including the columns in the input datasets.

    messages=[
        {
            "role": "system",
            "content": "You are a commentator. Your task is to "
            "summarize highlights from article.",
        },
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": f"# Article:\n{row['article']}\n\n"
            "#Instructions:\nIn clear and concise language, "
            "summarize the highlights presented in the article.",
        },
    ],
    sampling_params=dict(
        temperature=0.3,
        max_tokens=150,
        detokenize=False,
    ),
)
postprocess = lambda row: {
    "resp": row["generated_text"],
}
```

## Step 4: Build and run the processor

With the workload and configs defined, we can now build then run the processor

```python
from ray.data.llm import build_llm_processor

processor = build_llm_processor(
    processor_config,
    preprocess=preprocess,
    postprocess=postprocess,
)

ds = processor(ds)

> ds = ds.materialize()

Reviewer 2: Add a comment saying that this could be any data writing APIs (e.g. `write_parquet`) and point to the API doc.

# Peak the first 3 entries. 
sampled = ds.take(3)
print("==================GENERATED OUTPUT===============")
print('\n'.join(sampled))
```

### Monitoring the execution

> RayLLM-Batch uses Ray Data to implement the execution of the batch inference pipeline, and one can use the Ray Dashboard to monitor the execution. In the Ray Dashboard tab, navigate to the Job page and open the "Ray Data Overview" section. Click on the link for the running job, and open the "Ray Data Overview" section to view the details of the batch inference execution:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use the Ray Dashboard to monitor the execution. In the Ray Dashboard tab, navigate to the Job page and open the "Ray Data Overview" section. Click on the link for the running job, and open the "Ray Data Overview" section to view the details of the batch inference execution:
```

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anyscale/templates/main/templates/batch-llm/assets/ray-data-jobs.png" width=900px />

### Handling GPU out-of-memory failures

> If you run into CUDA out of memory, your batch size is likely too large. Set an explicit small batch size or use a smaller model (or a larger GPU).

Reviewer 2: Better to point to the trouble shooting page (we should have that in the future).

df = datasets.load_dataset("cnn_dailymail", "3.0.0")
ds = ray.data.from_huggingface(df["train"])

```

## Step 2: Define the processor config for vLLM engine

We will also need to define the model configs for the LLM engine, which configures the model and compute resources needed for inference. 

Make sure to provide your [Hugging Face user access token](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens). This will be used to authenticate/download the model and **is required for official LLaMA, Mistral, and Gemma models**.

```python
HF_TOKEN = "insert your hugging face token here"
```

In this example, we will be using the `meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct` model.
We will also need to define a configuration associated with the model we want to use to configure the compute resources, engine arguments and other inference engine specific parameters. For more details on the configs passed to vLLM engine, see [vLLM doc](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/serving/engine_args.html).

```python
from ray.data.llm import vLLMEngineProcessorConfig
from util.utils import is_on_gcp_cloud

# There's no a10g on GCP.

> accelerator_type = "L4" if is_on_gcp_cloud() else "A10G"

Reviewer: L4 exist on both, right? Should we just remove this util all together by using L4 for both clouds?

Author: Sounds good to me. I copied this from legacy template
